## GO CRUD WEB API

A Basic WebAPI written in GO. This is my first CRUD application written in GO. Currently it has 4 endpoints. 
---
- / or root to collect all users in the database.
- create-user, 
- update/{id}, 
- delete/{id}, 
- delete-all

It only deals with 4 fields in a mySQL database.

- username
- email
- fullname
- message

## Thoughts about GO:
These fields could easily be added to, swapped out, what have you, but I chose these just to practice with. When I began to learn go I went straight to the docs and went through language tutorials to get a fell for the syntax and try to pick up best practices. Since C was the first language I attempted to learn as a kid, (Oh, so long ago.) I found a lot of the syntax nostalgic to say the least. I have mostly been working in Python using FastAPI for backend, so there was a bit of a learning curve for building APIs. To my surprise I took to Go rather quickly. It picks the ball up where Python dropped it as far as I'm concerned. Statically typed, compiled, standalone executable programs. Once I got aquainted with the syntax and the way an app is structured I began to really enjoy it. The way this app came about is a culmination of the knowledge I gained from the examples on (www.gowebexamples.com)[GoWebExamples]. I was going to add a password to the fields just to work with hashing, but it seemed just unneccesary since there is no login. Besides it looks easy enough as is and I've always rolled my own auth anyway. I plan to do the same in Go when the time arrives. Pointers. I am actually glad to be using pointers again. I thought I'd forgotten how they worked and I had to certain degree, but after a few searches and discusions with Claude it all came back to me. They actually arent to much like the pointers in C, no arithmetic and they seem a lot easier to use than I remember from 36 years ago... lol, Im old as fuck. 

## Backend:
I opted not to use a framework for this application. Well, that's not totally true, I did use gorilla/mux for the routing, but thats it. I honestly dont think you really need one. I mean it took a bit of, well a lot of trial and error and digging through the docs and internet to get the structure of the application right. It started out as a one module program only using main.go but pretty quickly I started to want to build something a bit more robust, and this is the result of all that research and many mistakes along the way. I did use AI a bit to explain unfamiliar concepts and basically as a tutor, and\or consultant. However, I did not blatantly ask for code. I really enjoy programming and learning new concepts so I was adamant about prompting the AI to NOT spit out code unless I needed a bit more guidance. But if you've used it at all, you know it just loves to slam out code at any given oppurtunity. I had to literally demand it not give me code with every effing prompt. Now that I have a decent handle on how it all works, if I use the language professionally I probably would get more help via AI because time is money. But to really learn a thing, you need to bang out the code and make a lot of stupid mistakes. I had a look as Gin and it seems like it would be the way to go if you needed a quick micro service, or API. Had I opted to use it I'm sure this app would be a lot smaller. But I also don;t think I'd have learned as much. Again, best to learn the long way first.  There isn't too much to say about how the backend works really. You have your 5 endpoints that start with a route\endpoint, then to a handler that sets it all up, and then a call to the actual function that does the heavy lifting, back to the handler that sends a response to the client. I used the same mySQL database as in the GoWebExamples. A quick look at the code will tell you all you need to know if you are curious. Entry point main, connect to the database, create the table if running for the first time, insert an intial user if there isn't one already so the call to GetAllUsers() doesnt crash the app because there is nothing in the database. Setup the endpoints, and wait. Then handle any requests sent by the client. THat's it. nice, simple basic API. I tried to be as modular as possible and adhere to best practices (Well the ones I have learned thus far. I am sure an adept Go programmer would beat this app down, but we all have to start somewhere). I built the handlers to take advantage of utility functions for the responses, and I implemented a simple logging system to write to a file so I could debug a lot better. This actually saved me a lot of time and headaches because the nature of an API really doesnt allow you to print to the screen for debugging that well. It was tricky to get it to work (again been programming in Python before and the approach was totally different) and I did have to lean on Claude to get it to finally work. When it was all said and done I almost had it just right but I was not returning the right type on the logger() function. 

## Frontend:
I was going to make this a basic web app with forms and templates, but at the last minute I just decided to focus on a restFul API instead. I am currently building a basic frontend using HTML, CSS, and good ole JavaScript. No framework. THat would be overkill to build an entire React app just to interact with this API. THe frontend will be minimal and contains a form to enter each field, a table below that to display each record in the database, and a user panel to Create, Update by ID, Delete by ID, and Delete all records.

